BOOKING BOUNDARY SCREEN: CPU-ONLY RECOVERY AMENDMENT
Frozen before recovery executions, 2026-09-29

Purpose
Complete the existing fixed 64-program screen without another model generation
or weight update. This is a post-failure operational amendment, NOT a change to
the original verifier contrast or its complete-evidence feasibility gates.

What failed
The original app ap-gB60GRZEiMJvFX4UCKxaWT generated all 64 programs with weights
unchanged, then stopped while grading screen-17022. The protected parent exited
137 on input 86d538d0d14f336b930e621ea3922ef1bb6143b4539e899bcbaf5a44c511ec79.
Preflight succeeded; no protected report or stderr arrived; cleanup succeeded.
This is consistent with a kill but does not establish OOM, CPU exhaustion, a
candidate-caused kill, or a provider event. It is not a zero reward.

Six diagnostic probes (CPU only)
Use the saved program and the exact one-booking input, a simple correct control,
and a known infinite-loop control. Two probes use the original runner; four use
an instrumented parent that records its own CPU/RSS/limits and available cgroup
memory information. Keep the same underlying image and resource budgets.
No candidate code executes on the laptop or in the trusted controller.
All six probes must produce their declared result and confirmed cleanup before
continuation. Instrumented observations are diagnostic evidence only. Even a
successful replay must NOT replace the original ambiguous observation.

Continuation rules
Validate the original plans, source snapshot, all 64 sample/seed identities,
weight hash, authored controls and completed execution journals. Freeze that
inventory in a new run; never overwrite the original run. Reconcile provider
per-input intents/results where an interrupted batch could lack a Volume commit.
Reuse submitted evidence. Only inputs with no original submission are scheduled.
An intent without a result is unknown and never blindly resubmitted.

Keep the original root-supervised-panel-0.3 runner, image, limits, input set,
source programs and endpoint-omission predicate. There are eight execution
workers, globally paced to at least .26 seconds between sandbox creations.
Every input gets fresh isolation. At most one replacement is allowed for a
confirmed PRE-candidate startup failure under pre-candidate-timeout-0.1, with
one-second backoff and at most 16 replacement slots across the continuation.
Wrong answers, candidate timeouts and ambiguous supervisor losses are not retried.

An attributable candidate failure is a failed case. An unresolved execution is
recorded as unknown, and independent remaining inputs continue. Stop new work
if cleanup is unconfirmed, evidence bindings are invalid, the absolute deadline
is reached, or 16 new input outcomes are unknown. Already running work is drained.
Every intent/result is provider-journaled; periodic Volume commits retain local
records. A restarted controller reuses journals rather than repeating programs.
At most two controller starts share one absolute 3,600-second phase deadline.
The separate diagnostic phase is at most 600 seconds and six sandbox starts.

Scoring and interpretation
Keep denominators fixed at 96 reference and 57 weak inputs per program. For k
known passes and u unknown outcomes, the score lies in [k/n, (k+u)/n]. A known
failed case proves a full-pass claim false even when another case is unknown.
Calculate full-pass, false-acceptance and inclusive-signature count bounds over
ALL 64 original programs. Exact normalized advantage comparisons use only fully
resolved groups, and are reported as a lower bound with the group denominator.
Do not quietly drop uncertain candidates or call diagnostic reruns original data.

The original gate requires a fully resolved pool. It remains unmet if any input
is unknown; report useful count bounds separately. No gate automatically launches
RL, and neither the diagnostic nor this screen measures learning improvement or
reward-hacking amplification. A conclusive absence of the target fault is also
an informative feasibility result; do not keep sampling until the gate passes.

Costs and provenance
Query and freeze current billing/rates. Preserve prior unreconciled reservations
as holds, not actual spend. Reserve all possible sandbox lifetimes, CPU controller
starts with the nonpreemptible multiplier, and a $1 contingency per phase. Record
actual account-wide billing separately; it is not a per-run invoice. Zero GPUs.

Implementation
  verifier_rl/booking_screen_recovery.py
  modal_booking_screen_recovery.py
  tests/test_booking_screen_recovery.py
  runs/qwen-booking-boundary-recovery-20260929-v2/

Preparation amendment (.2)
The first CPU controller timed out after 600 seconds while loading historical
evidence, before the probe stage. Preserve its launch record and cost hold.
Completed batches are now validated from their committed raw/result pair, with
every execution binding and retry rechecked; their report hashes are retained.
They are explicitly labeled committed_batch evidence, not fabricated submission
intents. Individual provider/Volume journals are read for the interrupted batch
only. Unsubmitted batches are not scanned for thousands of nonexistent files.
This changes evidence loading, not candidate execution or scoring. The second
attempt retains a separate finite 600-second preparation/diagnostic allowance.

Explicit launches, only after offline checks pass and the previous app is stopped:
  .venv/bin/modal run --detach modal_booking_screen_recovery.py --phase diagnostic --allow-cloud
  .venv/bin/modal run --detach modal_booking_screen_recovery.py --phase recovery --allow-cloud
The second phase additionally requires a successful diagnostic receipt. Neither
command should be repeated to inspect status; use the recorded app/call instead.
