PROGRAM-SANDBOX RESEARCH INTEGRATION
==================================
Decision date: September 30, 2026
Runtime amendment: program-sandbox-001
Parent study: qwen-booking-replication-repair-20260930-v1
Status at creation: implemented; local integration checks and live gates pending.

PURPOSE AND SCIENTIFIC QUESTION
Does optimizing against an endpoint-omitting verifier amplify its blind spot
more than optimizing against a reference verifier? Does replacing eight weak
tests with endpoint tests reduce that behavior without harming correctness?

This amendment addresses an execution bottleneck, not that scientific question
by itself. Approximately 698,000 research input slots belong to 3,200 programs.
One sandbox per program removes the need to create roughly 700,000 sandboxes.
Every input still receives a separate, fresh, restricted Python process and
an individually saved result. No candidate code executes on the laptop.

WHAT REMAINS FROZEN
The original scientific plan remains byte-for-byte equivalent: original pinned
Qwen2.5-Coder-1.5B-Instruct, independently fresh optimizers, four training seeds,
reference / endpoint_omission / repaired conditions, 24 GRPO updates, and four
rollouts per group. Same prompt, decoding, 96 reference cases, 57 weak cases,
57 repaired cases, 192 audit cases, rewards and analysis rules. The reference
and audit union has 287 unique inputs; duplicate inputs execute only once.

Baseline: 128 fixed draws from the untrained original policy. Each trained
policy supplies 32 fixed evaluation draws at update 12 and 128 at update 24.
The new study is not initialized from earlier project training checkpoints.
Research comparisons use all four paired training seeds, not individual tests
as independent replications. Historical pilot results are not pooled here.
Audit tests are development evaluation, not a newly untouched final benchmark.

The release guard compares every historical library file to the original
source snapshot. The trainer-building, evaluation-boundary and GPU-runtime
functions are AST-identical. It also checks the execution implementation
against the completed CPU benchmark's frozen sources and remote artifacts.

EXPLICIT RUNTIME CHANGES
Execution contract: program-sandbox-readonly-0.1, validated by the separate
CPU benchmark in docs/program_sandbox_benchmark.txt. The pinned candidate image
is im-NDIH4lyCo53stOB8sRWEgJ. The child cannot write files, create subprocesses
or threads, access networking/IPC, or signal the root supervisor. No grading
answers, credentials, or project volumes are mounted. These restrictions are
narrower than the historical per-test backend and apply to every new arm.

A fresh process resets interpreter globals between inputs, not every aspect
of kernel state. This supports the pure booking-function contract, not general
file-processing or multiprocessing tasks. Tests of isolation are engineering
evidence, not proof that an arbitrary adversary cannot escape the runtime.

One non-concurrent Modal grading Function owns all research sandbox starts.
It runs at most four programs concurrently within a batch and shares a
0.30-second creation gate. A batch-boundary delay also protects the interval
between the previous batch's last start and the next batch's first start.
Other controllers may queue batches, but cannot multiply execution workers.
The old four-worker per-input service explicitly rejects the new context.

Per-input limits remain CPU 2s, wall 5s, address space 128 MiB, output 16 KiB.
The sandbox has one CPU and 256 MiB, with TTL 60+9*N seconds: 924s for training
and 2,643s for evaluation. The grading Function timeout becomes 3,600s. These
are worst-case limits, not expected program times. The original plan's old
grading concurrency, per-test retry and timeout fields are historical values;
the separately hashed runtime binding declares their effective replacements.

SCHEDULING WITHOUT ALTERING SAMPLES
Phases: controls -> original baseline -> all twelve training policies -> grade
saved evaluation programs -> paired analysis. At most two training GPUs run
simultaneously. Each seed retains its declared condition ordering. Evaluation
programs are still generated at updates 12 and 24 with the original RNG
preservation and frozen seeds; only their CPU grading is deferred.

This avoids long post-training audit batches holding up a paid GPU's next
training-reward request. There is no audit-based early stopping or checkpoint
selection. Completed training calls are reused from their immutable cache
during finalization, not executed for a second time. If training fails, queued
policies stop and the other active policy finishes its bounded call. There is
no automatic relaunch. Full-state checkpoints and pending rollouts are kept.

DURABILITY AND FAILURE RULES
An atomic provider-side program intent is saved before sandbox submission.
Every input outcome is saved separately in both a provider journal and the
evidence volume. A final receipt binds every input hash and the lifecycle
metadata. Completed programs can be reconstructed from these records without
running them again, including programs that answered incorrectly.

An intent without final lifecycle evidence is NOT permission to start another
sandbox. Stop for reconciliation rather than retrying until a favorable answer
appears. A confirmed candidate timeout is a test failure; uncertain transport,
signals or cleanup are unknown, not zeros. Any unknown training outcome blocks
the policy update. Evaluation retains the full denominator with explicit
missing-data bounds. The original 64-unknown global circuit is retained within
the new runtime namespace. Unconfirmed cleanup stops new scheduling globally.

Each saved batch is reconstructed from protected supervisor output, not a
candidate-supplied verdict. Every individual journal file is read and compared,
using bounded prefetch. Batch hashes/receipts are rechecked at finalization;
the cached-service integration control also rereads individual evidence with
zero sandbox reservation. No old-runtime grades are relabeled as new-runtime
data, and no unresolved historical outcome is silently retried.

BUDGET, OWNERSHIP AND DEADLINE AMENDMENT
The existing $250 additional-compute ledger is retained. Its original identity,
already settled charges, conservative failed-call holds and $20 overhead
reserve remain intact. This is not a new $250 allowance. Storage is separate,
and this application-level guard is not a provider-enforced billing cap.

New jobs reserve their CPU/GPU time and full per-program sandbox TTL BEFORE
submission. Only trusted completion receipts release unused reservation.
Lost calls retain the full hold. Current resource rates must match the stored
rates before launch. The old stop flag and maintenance-owner record are kept.

The new runtime uses its own provider namespace and artifact subtree:
  <parent-study>/program-sandbox-001
  <parent-study>/amendments/program-sandbox-001/
An explicit authorization record binds context, source, prior ledger and prior
stop state. Active jobs or candidate sandboxes prohibit the initial launch.

An explicit NEW runtime window of 24 hours minus five minutes starts at this
launch. The original deadline remains part of the original budget identity;
it is not rewritten or used to initialize a new ledger. A subsequent reviewed
resume uses the exact frozen sources and same new deadline. It cannot silently
extend the window or clear a stop condition. Work may remain incomplete at
the deadline or budget ceiling; report that rather than selecting partial seeds.

LIVE GATES BEFORE RESEARCH
Thirteen execution controls (two inputs each); three 96-input grader controls;
four queued authored batches testing ownership and routing; zero-execution
replay of a saved batch; and the existing uninterrupted/interrupted/resumed
three-step GPU full-state equivalence control. Only after all gates pass may
fresh model sampling and research training proceed. Synthetic GPU control
updates are not research observations.

Launch after checks:
  .venv/bin/modal run --detach modal_booking_replication.py --allow-cloud --program-runtime
Do not run this twice. For a reviewed continuation only, --resume-program
requires identical sources, an unexpired deadline and no unresolved stop flag.

TIMING EXPECTATIONS
The earlier benchmark measured 14.10 inputs/s at four-program concurrency, or
13.76 hours for research grading alone. The durable integrated path adds
provider-journal writes and artifact verification and needs its own timing.
18-24 hours remains a low-confidence planning range, not a measured full-run
completion time. Live phase logs and batch timings should refine that estimate.

LOCAL RELEASE CHECKS
All 114 focused integration, execution, benchmark, replication, accounting,
checkpoint-recovery, supervisor, finalization and progress tests passed in
37.635s. Compilation and whitespace checks passed. A fresh source comparison
validated the unchanged research plan and original ledger binding. The broader
regression suite is still running at launch preparation; its outcome is not
assumed here. The provider app list showed all old run apps stopped and zero
active tasks. The launcher independently checks active candidate sandboxes.

Provider Dict entries are a short-lived recovery aid, not permanent archival
storage: Modal documents expiry after seven days without a read or write.
Committed volume records and the evidence copy retain the study artifacts.
Reference: https://modal.com/docs/guide/dicts

LIVE LAUNCH
App: ap-7FLIh7MTxx45m27v5nmvkr
Controller call: fc-01M3T968WM8GYFEY6N0RAPPJZ1
Deadline: October 1, 2026, 16:02:50 PDT.
Source snapshot: 6a962f5f44b3bb0446f6250f11683a1b09179bec7d118bd7f2143329a6a6563d
The launch source matches the local files and the authorization hash. The
historical cleanup stop remains recorded. Committed holds before launch were
$38.52124525; reserving the new bounded controller brought them to $43.12366875.
These are reservations/estimated charges, not actual billing. All thirteen live
execution controls passed; the first 96-input grader batch is in progress.

LIVE CPU INTEGRATION GATES PASSED (APPROXIMATELY 16:12 PDT)
Five grader batches each executed three programs on 96 inputs: 1,440 total
inputs with no unknowns, unchanged reference/weak/repaired counts, and distinct
program sandbox IDs. Batch work plus evidence verification took approximately
29-35s apiece, excluding outer queue/startup delays. Four submitted batches
queued behind the single service; they did not multiply its sandbox-start rate.
The cached replay reread the saved evidence, returned exactly the same result,
and created no new sandboxes. The three-part GPU recovery control has now begun.
Research training and fresh baseline generation remain gated on that control.

FULL LOCAL REGRESSION COMPLETE
All 567 tests passed in 881.686s. The final focused release subset also passed
114 checks in 37.635s. At approximately 16:17 PDT, the first GPU control had
loaded Qwen and completed its first synthetic optimizer update; full checkpoint
verification was underway. This is the three-step recovery-control sequence,
not one of the twelve research arms. No new scientific conclusion is asserted.

Progress command:
  .venv/bin/modal app logs ap-7FLIh7MTxx45m27v5nmvkr --follow --timestamps
